.\" zcore.7 - manual page for the zcore syscall library
.TH ZCORE 7 2026-04-05 "linux" "zcore manual"
.SH NAME
zcore \- tiny & modular C header library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <zcore/full.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B zcore
is a minimalist,
.B #nostdlib
C library thats designed for x86_64 static compiling on linux. 
its a completely solo project with zero contributors, except for me.
it utilises things like ASSEMBLY!! (scary >_< ), its optimised for binary size and originally
made for me to save time writing assembly in my tiny shells. 
works well with tbt ( tiny binary tool, see man 1 tbt ) for compilation & stripping.
.SS design  \(dqphilosophy\(dq
small = proud, proud = happy. simple! 
.SS features
.IP \(bu 3
.B freestanding:
no dependencies lol
your little stdio needs a zillion dependencies, mine needs a zilli-ZERO!!!
.IP \(bu 3
.B tiny:
DIRECT assembly wrappers (e.g., zexecve, zopen) minimize instruction count ( less things to do for cpu )
.IP \(bu 3
.B modular:
WHAT YOU SEE, IS WHAT YOU GET!!! everything inside
.IR /usr/local/include/zcore/ 

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/local/include/zcore.h 
unless you desperately need every. single. thing. in zcore. dont use, if you do, very helpful. saves a LOT. of #includes.
.TP
.I /usr/local/include/zcore/*.h
individual syscall and utility headers (open.h, execve.h, etc)
.SH NOTES
since
.B zcore
does not provide a standard startup routine (crt0), (your little int main()'s)
your code gotta define ur own 
.B _start 
entry point and use 
.BR zexit (0)
to make it return ( like your return 0;'s !!')

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR syscalls (2),
.BR intro (2),
.BR elf (5),
.BR tbt (1)

.SH BUGS
open a pull request on github! this is going to have a crap ton of bugs 
because this project is really just me and neovim. 
.SH AUTHOR
chromalence, https://github.com/chromalence/
.SH THANK YOU FOR READING!!  
.SH HAVE A GREAT DAY!!! :3
